https://www.bettycrocker.com/recipes/ultimate-chocolate-chip-cookies/77c14e03-d8b0-4844-846d-f19304f61c57


We're big fans of chocolate chip cookies, and these are the best of the best! Our Ultimate Chocolate Chip Cookies are sure to impress cookie connoisseurs everywhere—slightly crispy on the outside and perfectly chewy on the inside, it's no wonder these cookies are top-rated by hundreds of satisfied home bakers. Whip up a batch of Ultimate Chocolate Chip Cookies to hand out to family or friends, and get ready for the compliments to roll in!
by Betty Crocker Kitchens Updated Apr 3, 2024
How to Store Homemade Chocolate Chip Cookies
We can almost guarantee you won’t have leftovers—this is the best chocolate chip cookie recipe around! If you do end up with any extra chocolate chip cookies, they can easily be stored for later enjoyment. To keep your leftover cookies chewy and soft, store them at room temperature in resealable food-storage plastic bags or stacked in tightly covered containers.

If you want to freeze your homemade chocolate chip cookies instead, wait until they’ve cooled completely. Stack them in between layers of wax paper in a covered freezer container or plastic freezer bag and freeze your cookies for up to 2 months. To thaw, keep them covered at room temperature for 1 to 2 hours. Go ahead and chow down!

How to Customize This Chocolate Chip Cookie Recipe
Want to switch it up? This chocolate chip cookie recipe can easily be customized with endless flavor combinations! Just replace the chocolate chips and nuts with the same amount of the new ingredients you want to add. Try adding macadamia nuts and white vanilla baking chips, or pack a double punch of peanut flavor with peanut butter chips and chopped peanuts. Make salted butterscotch-pecan cookies by swapping in butterscotch chips and chopped pecans, and then sprinkling your cookies with coarse salt before baking.

We also have plenty of other chocolate chip cookie recipes to try. Can’t decide between cookies and brownies? Our Double Chocolate Chip Cookies, are packed full of decadent chocolate flavor. Our Oatmeal Chocolate Chip Cookies, offer next-level deliciousness, too—you really can never go wrong with a classic!

Ingredients
2 1/4
cups Gold Medal™ all-purpose flour
1
teaspoon baking soda
1/2
teaspoon salt
1
cup butter, softened
3/4
cup granulated sugar
3/4
cup packed brown sugar
1
egg
1
teaspoon vanilla
2
cups semisweet chocolate chips
1
cup coarsely chopped nuts, if desired