https://tasty.co/recipe/the-best-chewy-chocolate-chip-cookies

There are a few crucial steps to baking the chewiest, tastiest chocolate chip cookies. First, skip using chips and opt for chunks. Second, instead of using just one type of chocolate (like semisweet), use a mix of semisweet, milk, and dark chocolate. Third, take the time to allow the cookie dough to rest overnight in the refrigerator. Yes, we know it's a pain, but doing so will yield a cookie with a more complex flavor and delicious toffee notes. Lastly, use an ice cream scoop to portion the cookie dough onto the baking sheet. This will produce even-sized cookies every single time. Follow these simple steps, and you'll be rewarded with a cookie that's crisp and chewy on the outside and gooey on the inside!

Ingredients
for 12 cookies

½ cup granulated sugar(100 g)
¾ cup brown sugar(165 g), packed
1 teaspoon salt
½ cup unsalted butter(115 g), melted
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour(155 g)
½ teaspoon baking soda
4 oz milk or semi-sweet chocolate chunks(110 g)
4 oz dark chocolate chunk(110 g), or your preference
Nutrition Info
View Info
Shop Ingredients
?
Build your cart with Tasty, then choose how you want to get your order from Walmart.

Add items to My Cart
Powered by
walmart grocery logo
Preparation
In a large bowl, whisk together the sugars, salt, and butter until a paste forms with no lumps.
Whisk in the egg and vanilla, beating until light ribbons fall off the whisk and remain for a short while before falling back into the mixture.
Sift in the flour and baking soda, then fold the mixture with a spatula (Be careful not to overmix, which would cause the gluten in the flour to toughen resulting in cakier cookies).
Fold in the chocolate chunks, then chill the dough for at least 30 minutes. For a more intense toffee-like flavor and deeper color, chill the dough overnight. The longer the dough rests, the more complex its flavor will be.
Preheat oven to 350°F (180°C). Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Scoop the dough with an ice-cream scoop onto a parchment paper-lined baking sheet, leaving at least 4 inches (10 cm) of space between cookies and 2 inches (5 cm) of space from the edges of the pan so that the cookies can spread evenly.
Bake for 12-15 minutes, until the edges have started to barely brown.
Cool completely before serving.
Enjoy!